---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-03-04T09:56:21.191Z'
dateModified: '2016-03-04T09:55:48.950Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-03-04-1e11ad40-9a7e-44e5-8a10-1387a842b938.md
published: true
url: 1e11ad40-9a7e-44e5-8a10-1387a842b938/index.html
_type: Article

---
I am a political scientist with a focus on international relations and conflict research. Having completed graduate degrees in economics, political science and humanitarian assistance, I focused on studying the impact of democratization processes on the likelihood of civil-war onset in ethnically heterogeneous countries as part of the Swiss National Center of Competence in Research "Challenges to Democracy in the 21st Century". I have collaborated in the development of a new coding method for democratization periods and contributed to the launch of the peer-reviewed journal Living Reviews in Democracy. For my dissertation at ETH Zurich, I have investigated the influence of political leaders on the likelihood of civil-war onset during democratization phases, challenging the theory of "elite manipulation" on the grounds that the theorized extensive influence of political leaders is unrealistic. As part of my second research focus, I have published an edited volume of student studies on the functioning of actors in the global civil society. 

At Maastricht University (UM) and United Nations University (UNU), I serve as the education director for the M.Sc. program in Public Policy and Human Development. Moreover, I lecture at Maastricht Graduate School of Governance (UM), Maastricht Economic and Social Research Institute on Innovation and Technology (UNU) and the School of Business and Economics, provide supervision and academic advice for bachelor, master and doctoral students, and serve as Dutch member on the Management Committee for the EU COST action "European Network for Conflict Research".